PRESS RELEASE
Mumbai, May 15, 2026

                            Revision in criteria for Nifty indices

     The Index Maintenance Sub-Committee (Equity) of NSE Indices Limited has decided to revise the ad-
     hoc rebalancing methodology of all Nifty equity indices that do not have fixed number of stocks
     (variable stocks index).

     The change in the index criteria is as mentioned hereunder:

                          Existing                                             Revised
                                                           Redistribute the weight of the stock that is being
      The weight of the entire portfolio is realigned
                                                           excluded among the other index constituents
      from its drifted weight to the index capping limits.
                                                           proportionally.

     The change shall become effective from May 29, 2026 (close of May 27, 2026).


     About NSE Indices Limited:
     NSE Indices Limited (formerly known as India Index Services & Products Ltd. - IISL), a subsidiary of
     NSE, provides a variety of indices and index related services for the capital markets. The company
     focuses on the index as a core product. The company owns and manages a portfolio of indices under
     the Nifty brand of NSE, including the flagship index, the Nifty 50. Nifty equity indices comprises
     broad-based benchmark indices, sectoral indices, strategy indices, thematic indices, and customised
     indices. NSE Indices Limited also maintains fixed income indices based on Government of India
     securities, corporate bonds, money market instruments and hybrid indices. Many investment products
     based on Nifty indices have been developed within India and abroad. These include index-based
     derivatives traded on NSE and NSE International Exchange IFSC Limited (NSE IX) and a number of
     index funds and exchange traded funds. The flagship 'Nifty 50' index is widely tracked and traded as
     the benchmark for Indian Capital Markets.
     For more information, please visit: www.niftyindices.com
     Press contact:
     Email ID: cc@nse.co.in
