PRESS RELEASE
Mumbai, July 13, 2026

                         Revision in criteria in Nifty equity indices
      The Index Maintenance Sub-Committee (Equity) of NSE Indices Limited has decided to revise the
      eligibility criteria for the inclusion of the stocks in the Nifty equity indices based on the SEBI circular
      named - Reclassification of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) as equity related instruments for
      facilitating enhanced participation by Mutual Funds and Specialized Investment Funds (SIFs)’
      (Circular no: HO/24/13/12(1)2025-IMD-POD-2/I/157/2025). Revised eligibility criterion is as
      mentioned below:
                Parameter                         Existing                         Revised

       Eligibility Criteria             REITs are not considered REITs shall be eligible for
                                        eligible for inclusion in Nifty inclusion in Nifty equity
                                        equity indices                  indices


      The changes shall be made applicable from the upcoming scheduled reconstitution of the respective
      Nifty equity indices.


      About NSE Indices Limited:
      NSE Indices Limited (formerly known as India Index Services & Products Ltd. - IISL), a subsidiary of
      NSE, provides a variety of indices and index related services for the capital markets. The company
      focuses on the index as a core product. The company owns and manages a portfolio of indices under
      the Nifty brand of NSE, including the flagship index, the Nifty 50. Nifty equity indices comprises
      broad-based benchmark indices, sectoral indices, strategy indices, thematic indices and customised
      indices. NSE Indices Limited also maintains fixed income indices based on Government of India
      securities, corporate bonds, money market instruments and hybrid indices. Many investment products
      based on Nifty indices have been developed within India and abroad. These include index-based
      derivatives traded on NSE and NSE International Exchange IFSC Limited (NSE IX) and a number of
      index funds and exchange traded funds. The flagship 'Nifty 50' index is widely tracked and traded as
      the benchmark for Indian Capital Markets.
      For more information, please visit: www.niftyindices.com
      Press contact:
      Email ID: cc@nse.co.in
