                                   PRESS RELEASE
                                                                             Mumbai, October 08, 2021


                 Revision in criteria of NIFTY Microcap 250 index
The Index Maintenance Sub-Committee - Equity (IMSC) of NSE Indices Limited has decided to make
the revision in criteria of NIFTY Microcap 250 index as given hereunder:


 Parameter          Existing Method                       Proposed Method

 Compliance         NA                                    •   On a quarterly basis, indices will be
 with SEBI
                                                              screened for compliance with the
 portfolio
 concentration                                                portfolio    concentration      norms
 norms
                                                              (related to impact cost, trading
                                                              frequency and stock weight limits)
                                                              for ETFs/ Index Funds announced
                                                              by SEBI on January 10, 2019. In
                                                              case of non-compliance, suitable
                                                              corrective measures will be taken to
                                                              ensure compliance with the norms

 Eligible           •    Companies ranked within top •        Post applying the impact cost filter,
 Universe
                         1000 based on average daily          it is possible that the number of
                         turnover and on average daily        eligible stocks in the universe is less
                         full   market   capitalization       than 250
                         based on previous six months •       In case, the number of eligible
                         period data                          stocks in the universe is less than
                                                              250, then the deficit number of
                                                              stocks shall be selected from the
                                                                       universe of stocks ranked within top
                                                                       1100, top 1200 and so on, based on
                                                                       both average daily turnover and
                                                                       average      daily      full     market
                                                                       capitalization based on previous six
                                                                       months period data, until at least
                                                                       250 eligible stocks are obtained
                                                                  •    If the number of eligible stocks is
                                                                       still less than 250, then the index
                                                                       may have less than 250 constituents


 Maximum                NA                                        50
 replacements
 per review*
* Limits on replacement are not applicable for exclusions on account of non-compliance of minimum eligibility criteria,
exclusion of stocks from parent index and corporate events such as merger, spin-offs, delisting, trading suspension etc.

The revision in criteria would be applicable with an immediate effect.


About National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE):
National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) is the world’s largest derivatives exchange by trading volume
(contracts) as per the statistics maintained by Futures Industry Association (FIA) for calendar year
2020. NSE is ranked 4th in the world in the cash equities by number of trades as per the statistics
maintained by the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) for calendar year 2020. NSE was the first
exchange in India to implement electronic or screen-based trading. It began operations in 1994 and is
ranked as the largest stock exchange in India in terms of total and average daily turnover for equity
shares every year since 1995, based on SEBI data. NSE has a fully-integrated business model
comprising exchange listings, trading services, clearing and settlement services, indices, market data
feeds, technology solutions and financial education offerings. NSE also oversees compliance by
trading, clearing members and listed companies with the rules and regulations of SEBI and the
exchange. NSE is a pioneer in technology and ensures the reliability and performance of its systems
through a culture of innovation and investment in technology.
For more information, please visit: www.nseindia.com
About NSE Indices Limited:
NSE Indices Limited (formerly known as India Index Services & Products Ltd. - IISL), a subsidiary of
NSE, provides a variety of indices and index related services for the capital markets. The company focuses
on the index as a core product. The company owns and manages a portfolio of indices under the NIFTY
brand of NSE, including the flagship index, the NIFTY 50. NIFTY equity indices comprises of broad-based
benchmark indices, sectoral indices, strategy indices, thematic indices and customised indices. NSE Indices
Limited also maintains fixed income indices based on Government of India securities, corporate bonds,
money market instruments and hybrid indices. Many investment products based on NIFTY indices have
been developed within India and abroad. These include index based derivatives traded on NSE, NSE IFSC
and Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) and a number of index funds and exchange traded funds. The flagship
'NIFTY 50' index is widely tracked and traded as the benchmark for Indian Capital Markets.
For more information, please visit: www.niftyindices.com

For any clarifications please contact:
Arijit Sengupta
Chief Marketing & Communications Officer


Kumar Kartikey
Chief Manager, Corporate Communication
Email id: cc@nse.co.in
